README.md, before:

# My Anime Watch List

Anime watchlist tracker based off [Kitsu.io](https://kitsu.io/explore/anime)

![Homepage](public/homepage.jpg)

## Stack

- Frontend: Next.js (App Router), React, TypeScript, Mantine, TailwindCSS, CSS Modules (yes)
- Backend: Next.js/Node.js, Supabase + PostgreSQL
- Authentication: Supabase Auth (JWT/session-based)
- 3rd party API: [Kitsu API](https://kitsu.docs.apiary.io/#) (anime discovery platform)

## API

This also includes a RESTful CRUD API for the following resources:

- [x] `/api/users`
  - [x] `GET`: (_protected_) Get the user information of an authenticated user via authorization tokens
  - [x] `GET`: Get users based on the following search parameters ordered by relevance
    - `search: string` - Return users with usernames prefixed with the search string
    - `excludeWatchlistId: string` - Return users that are not already collaborators of this watchlist
    - `limit: string` - Return this many users
- [x] `/api/users/:username`
  - [x] `GET`: Get public user information associated with the user. For now, this is just the user id and username
- [x] `/api/users/:username/watchlists`
  - [x] `GET`: Get the public watchlists associated with the user by their username. For an authenticated user, this would include any private watchlists for that specific user as well
    - (Note) This accepts two query parameters:
      - `editable: boolean` - Return watchlists that the user can edit.
        If the requester is not the requested, this will always be true (outsiders cannot see watchlists for a viewer)
      - `overview: boolean` - Return watchlist overviews instead of base watchlists (i.e., includes some anime and collaborator information)
- [x] `/api/users/:username/anime`
  - [x] `GET`: (_protected_) Get all anime related to user (rated, marked status, added to watchlist)
    - [ ] TODO: Add pagination and filtering, but not necessary for now
- [x] `/api/anime`
  - [x] `GET`: Search and return a collection of anime, given query parameters
- [x] `/api/anime/:animeId`
  - [x] `GET`: Retrieve the anime resource given the associated anime id. Also include any associated resources associated with this anime and an authenticated user (user ratings, watch status, watchlists added)
  - [x] `PATCH`: (_protected_) Update anime status associated with the user (ratings, watch status)
  - [x] `DELETE`: (_protected_) Remove anime status associated with the user (ratings, watch status)
- [x] `/api/watchlists`
  - [x] `GET`: Search and return a collection of public watchlists, given query parameters. For an authenticated user, this would include any private watchlists for that specific user as well.
  - [x] `POST`: (_protected_) Create a new watchlist.
- [x] `/api/watchlists/:watchlistId`
  - [x] `GET`: Retrieve the watchlist resource given the associated watchlist id.
  - [x] `PUT`: (_protected_) Update the watchlist metadata (name, description, public)
  - [x] `DELETE`: (_protected_) Delete the watchlist
- [x] `/api/watchlists/:watchlistId/users`
  - [x] `GET`: Get collaborators for the watchlist
  - [x] `POST`: (_protected_) Add collaborators to the watchlist (editor, viewer)
- [x] `/api/watchlists/:watchlistId/users/:userId`
  - [x] `PATCH`: (_protected_) Update collaborator role in the watchlist
  - [x] `DELETE`: (_protected_) Remove a collaborator from the watchlist
- [x] `/api/watchlists/:watchlistId/anime`
  - [x] `GET`: Get anime associated with the watchlist
    - [ ] TODO: Add pagination, sort, filter?
  - [x] `POST`: (_protected_) Add an anime to the watchlist
- [x] `/api/watchlists/:watchlistId/anime/:animeId`
  - [x] `DELETE`: (_protected_) Remove the anime from the watchlist

## Data Schema

This leverages Postgres features extensively, including using JSON validation, row-level security policies, full text search, and others. The data schema is as follows:

- `anime`: Saved anime resources from Kitsu (used to minimize dependency on Kitsu for watchlists)
- `users`: User profile information that is publicly accessible. Note `id` links to the UUID `auth.users.id` column
- `user_reviews`: User reviews on anime watch status and ratings
- `watchlists`: User anime watchlists
- `watchlists_anime`: Anime added to watchlists
- `watchlists_users`: Users (collaborators) added to watchlists as `owner`, `editor`, or `viewer`

![Schema](public/db-schema.jpg)

## Contributing

1. Make sure to install and enable the correct `pnpm` version. Also make sure to use nvm to use the correct node version.

```sh
nvm use
corepack enable
```

2. Install the packages with `pnpm`:

```sh
pnpm install
```

3. Copy `.env.example` into `.env` and add the configured supabase credentials.

4. Once supabase credentials are set up, run the following to generate the correct up-to-date types:

```sh
# Login to supabase and get credentials
pnpm db:login

# Generate types
pnpm gen:types
```

5. Run the development server and go to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to see the result:

```sh
pnpm dev
```

Commit message:

refactor: allow single and multiple collaborator additions

README.md, after:

# My Anime Watch List

Anime watchlist tracker based off [Kitsu.io](https://kitsu.io/explore/anime)

![Homepage](public/homepage.jpg)

## Stack

- Frontend: Next.js (App Router), React, TypeScript, Mantine, TailwindCSS, CSS Modules (yes)
- Backend: Next.js/Node.js, Supabase + PostgreSQL
- Authentication: Supabase Auth (JWT/session-based)
- 3rd party API: [Kitsu API](https://kitsu.docs.apiary.io/#) (anime discovery platform)

## API

This also includes a RESTful CRUD API for the following resources:

- [x] `/api/users`
  - [x] `GET`: (_protected_) Get the user information of an authenticated user via authorization tokens
  - [x] `GET`: Get users based on the following search parameters ordered by relevance
    - `search: string` - Return users with usernames prefixed with the search string
    - `excludeWatchlistId: string` - Return users that are not already collaborators of this watchlist
    - `limit: string` - Return this many users
- [x] `/api/users/:username`
  - [x] `GET`: Get public user information associated with the user. For now, this is just the user id and username
- [x] `/api/users/:username/watchlists`
  - [x] `GET`: Get the public watchlists associated with the user by their username. For an authenticated user, this would include any private watchlists for that specific user as well. This accepts two query parameters:
    - `editable: boolean` - Return watchlists that the user can edit.
      If the requester is not the requested, this will always be true (outsiders cannot see watchlists for a viewer)
    - `overview: boolean` - Return watchlist overviews instead of base watchlists (i.e., includes some anime and collaborator information)
- [x] `/api/users/:username/anime`
  - [x] `GET`: (_protected_) Get all anime related to user (rated, marked status, added to watchlist)
    - [ ] TODO: Add pagination and filtering, but not necessary for now
- [x] `/api/anime`
  - [x] `GET`: Search and return a collection of anime, given query parameters
- [x] `/api/anime/:animeId`
  - [x] `GET`: Retrieve the anime resource given the associated anime id. Also include any associated resources associated with this anime and an authenticated user (user ratings, watch status, watchlists added)
  - [x] `PATCH`: (_protected_) Update anime status associated with the user (ratings, watch status)
  - [x] `DELETE`: (_protected_) Remove anime status associated with the user (ratings, watch status)
- [x] `/api/watchlists`
  - [x] `GET`: Search and return a collection of public watchlists, given query parameters. For an authenticated user, this would include any private watchlists for that specific user as well.
  - [x] `POST`: (_protected_) Create a new watchlist.
- [x] `/api/watchlists/:watchlistId`
  - [x] `GET`: Retrieve the watchlist resource given the associated watchlist id.
  - [x] `PUT`: (_protected_) Update the watchlist metadata (name, description, public)
  - [x] `DELETE`: (_protected_) Delete the watchlist
- [x] `/api/watchlists/:watchlistId/users`
  - [x] `GET`: Get collaborators for the watchlist
  - [x] `POST`: (_protected_) Add collaborators to the watchlist (editor, viewer). This accepts two request body formats:
    - `{ userId: string, role: 'editor' | 'viewer' }` - Add a single user
    - `{ users: { userId: string, role: 'editor' | 'viewer' }[] }` - Add multiple users
- [x] `/api/watchlists/:watchlistId/users/:userId`
  - [x] `PATCH`: (_protected_) Update collaborator role in the watchlist
  - [x] `DELETE`: (_protected_) Remove a collaborator from the watchlist
- [x] `/api/watchlists/:watchlistId/anime`
  - [x] `GET`: Get anime associated with the watchlist
    - [ ] TODO: Add pagination, sort, filter?
  - [x] `POST`: (_protected_) Add an anime to the watchlist
- [x] `/api/watchlists/:watchlistId/anime/:animeId`
  - [x] `DELETE`: (_protected_) Remove the anime from the watchlist

## Data Schema

This leverages Postgres features extensively, including using JSON validation, row-level security policies, full text search, and others. The data schema is as follows:

- `anime`: Saved anime resources from Kitsu (used to minimize dependency on Kitsu for watchlists)
- `users`: User profile information that is publicly accessible. Note `id` links to the UUID `auth.users.id` column
- `user_reviews`: User reviews on anime watch status and ratings
- `watchlists`: User anime watchlists
- `watchlists_anime`: Anime added to watchlists
- `watchlists_users`: Users (collaborators) added to watchlists as `owner`, `editor`, or `viewer`

![Schema](public/db-schema.jpg)

## Contributing

1. Make sure to install and enable the correct `pnpm` version. Also make sure to use nvm to use the correct node version.

```sh
nvm use
corepack enable
```

2. Install the packages with `pnpm`:

```sh
pnpm install
```

3. Copy `.env.example` into `.env` and add the configured supabase credentials.

4. Once supabase credentials are set up, run the following to generate the correct up-to-date types:

```sh
# Login to supabase and get credentials
pnpm db:login

# Generate types
pnpm gen:types
```

5. Run the development server and go to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to see the result:

```sh
pnpm dev
```
